docs: code-examples (#1349)
asyncapi/website: pages/community/styleguide/code-examples.md

---
title: Code examples
description : This guide illustrates the standards for adding examples of code in the documentation.
weight: 20
---

Code examples added must be straightforward enough to understand for all audiences and include line-by-line comments.

Add practical code examples adhering to industry standards, as users may copy and run the sample code in production. Be sure to include comments with warnings on what may occur when running that code. Make no assumptions about the reader's familiarity with libraries, frameworks, preprocessors, or other non-native features.
Clarify when you're adding a code snippet and not a complete example. Provide information about any packages or dependencies required to run the sample code.

Code examples should be self-explanatory and easy to understand. The goal is to provide simplified working examples that can be understood as soon as possible, not necessarily to create efficient, brilliant code that impresses experts and has outstanding utility.

## Formatting 

> ### Code Length

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Code length
```

- Ideally, code lines shouldn't be so long that reading them horizontally requires scrolling.

- For the sake of readability, break large lines at appropriate moments, but never at the price of acceptable practises.

### Colors
Color plays an important role in syntax highlighting, making code samples easier to read and understand code. Use color in a consistent and accessible way to make code examples accessible to everyone.

- Use a color scheme that is accessible: Ensure the color scheme meets accessibility standards. This means using colors that have enough contrast to be easily distinguishable from each other. 
- Use color to differentiate between elements: Color can be used to differentiate between different elements in your code, such as keywords, variables, and comments. This makes it easier to quickly identify and understand the different parts of the code.
- Test your code with color blindness simulators: There are many different types of color blindness, and it's important to ensure your code is readable for people with all types of color blindness. Use color blindness simulators to test how your code appears to users with different types of color blindness.

> ### Spacing and Indentation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Spacing and indentation
```

---
title: Code examples
weight: 20

> ---

Reviewer: Please add a `description` to the meta data section. ✌🏽

Author: Added the description 👍🏻

> 

Reviewer: Please remove the extra spaces of lines 5-6, we don't want huge empty spots in our docs' formatting/spacing 😂✌🏽

Author: done

---
title: Code examples
weight: 20
---

> # Code Examples

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

The page title meta data becomes the page's h1, so we can remove this ✌🏽

> ## Guidelines

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

It doesn't make sense to have an h1 with no content, so let's delete this superfluous header. This copy seems a better intro summary to the topic, anyway.

> Code examples which you add must be simple enough to understand and with good details to do something interesting and useful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Code examples added must be straightforward enough to understand for all audiences and include line-by-line comments.
```

> You need to add practical code examples which adhere to industry standards as users will copy the sample code and run it in production. Be sure to include any warnings through comments which might occur during the code run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add practical code examples adhering to industry standards, as users may copy and run the sample code in production. Be sure to include comments with warnings on what may occur when running that code. Make no assumptions about the reader's familiarity with libraries, frameworks, preprocessors, or other non-native features.
```

> Make it clear if it is a snippet and not a complete example. Provide information about any packages or dependencies required to run the sample code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clarify when you're adding a code snippet and not a complete example. Provide information about any packages or dependencies required to run the sample code.
```

> The code example should be self explanatory and easy to understand. The goal is to provide simplified working examples that can be understood as soon as possible, not necessarily to create efficient, brilliant code that impresses experts and has outstanding utility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Code examples should be self-explanatory and easy to understand. The goal is to provide simplified working examples that can be understood as soon as possible, not necessarily to create efficient, brilliant code that impresses experts and has outstanding utility.
```

## Formatting 

### Code Length

> - Code lines shouldn't be so lengthy that reading them horizontally requires scrolling.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ideally, code lines shouldn't be so long that reading them horizontally requires scrolling.
```

- For the sake of readability, break large lines at appropriate moments, but never at the price of acceptable practises.

> - Add bullet points for better readability and understandability.

Reviewer: add bullet points in code examples? what?

I am not sure this sentence makes sense 😅 

```suggestion
```

Author: Here, if we are explaining that code example then for better understanding we can add bullet points

Reviewer: No, we don't need to use bullet points in code snippet examples. **Please delete this sentence, because it is not relevant to code snippets.** (bullet points would be text written around code snippets, they are not a part of the code blocks)

Author: okay

> ### Colors
> 
> - Using different colors for making the code more readable and understandable.
> Add different color to `tags` and `code` is a good practice.
> 
> - Code blocks that show good habits to adopt are shown with a green check mark in the right corner, while those that show bad habits are shown with a white cross inside a red circle.
> 
> - You different colors for bracket to know the starting and ending bracket of code block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Colors
Color plays an important role in syntax highlighting, making code samples easier to read and understand code. Use color in a consistent and accessible way to make code examples accessible to everyone.

- Use a color scheme that is accessible: Ensure the color scheme meets accessibility standards. This means using colors that have enough contrast to be easily distinguishable from each other. 
- Use color to differentiate between elements: Color can be used to differentiate between different elements in your code, such as keywords, variables, and comments. This makes it easier to quickly identify and understand the different parts of the code.
- Test your code with color blindness simulators: There are many different types of color blindness, and it's important to ensure your code is readable for people with all types of color blindness. Use color blindness simulators to test how your code appears to users with different types of color blindness.

```

We do not currently have any styling in our docs' code snippets for green checkmarks showing right code block or red x's for wrong code blocks. We only use correct code snippets in our docs, so this example didn't apply. 

We also want to mention color accessibility, so I added that info.

Author: ohkkk Alejandra

### Spacing and Indentation

> - Put the characters for the open-brace ("") on the same line as the sentence that opens the block.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

sorry, what? I don't think this makes sense, but please explain it to me in more detail :)

Author: So,here I am refering about bracket we place in code
For e.g. 
`if ( short_cond ) {
    ...
}`
As seen here the bracket of if condition is opened and closed in the same line

Reviewer: This is still an unclear sentence, and the `("")` part makes no sense. Please rewrite this sentence and provide an example to the reader with a code snippet to show what you mean. 😄

Author: @alequetzalli PTAL

- In all code samples, the indentation should be two spaces per tab.

- Add proper spacing between code blocks

> - After adding comments ,start writing code from the next line.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- After adding comments, start writing code from the next line.
```

> ### General
> 
> Make no assumptions about the reader's familiarity with any libraries, frameworks, preprocessors, or other non-native features. 
> 
> Write your code to be as clean and understandable as possible
> 
> Add links of the library or documentation for better understanding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

this `general` section seems wrongly placed... I'm deleting this, but retaining some of it's useful content to place in the intro instead

Author: ok
